


Analysis 3


./figures

Sequence of Functions


Introduction

In previous courses, we analysed the convergence of sequences of numbers (example: ) with a series of tests. In this course we will be analysing sequences of functions .

An example, is .


There are 2 ways these sequences can converge: pointwise and uniformly


            *Plot of the sequence 
    
Pointwise convergence

This is a very natural way of proving convergence since all you have to do is fix  to a point  then the sequence just becomes an ordinary sequence of numbers, and if they all converge to a number we can define a limit function  and say that they converge to  pointwisely.


    We say that a sequence of functions  where , converges pointwise to function  on the interval  if:
    

 
A very practical way to prove pointwise convergence is to:

    Let  then find  some 
    Then let  and again find  
    If neither of the results are unbounded  then we say  is convergent to some 


    if the result of step 1 is  and step 2 results in  where  then we define the limit function:
     

 

Let  be a sequence of functions defined on . We will say that  converges pointwise to the function  if for every  and for every  such that for al   we write .The integer  depends on  and  ;

    Let  ;, study the pointwise convergence of .

    


    We conclude that  converges pointwise to 


    let  where . Study the pointwise convergence of .
    
        ,. Undetermined form.

            
         ( is fixed)

            
        Then  converges pointwise to 
    




 
Second method
using the definition of the pointwise convergence.


 
we must find  first for   then the choice of  is arbitrary.

for  



 
We choose  such that 
Uniform convergence

    Let  be a sequence of functions defined on . We say that  converges uniformly to the limit function  if 
    

 
     is the limit function . depends on only 

    
        Pointwise convergence means that at every point the sequence of function has its own speed of convergence (that can be very fast at some points and very slow at others)
        Uniform convergence means there is an overall speed of convergence
    
     .

      the sequence  CV pointwise to  (no overall speed of CV for all points)

    

    the sequence CV uniform to  (there is an overall speed of CV for all points)

   To prove the uniform convergence of a sequence of functions  defined on  to the limit function, we may prove the pointwise convergence by proving the integer  is independent of  or 


    Let .

    Study the uniform convergence of  to  by showing that .


    
    

 
    ,  then  converges uniformly to 


    
    Let  defined on . Show the uniform convergence of  to the limit function using .


     ( is fixed).  converges pointwise to  on .

     

    Let  

     TABLE OF VAR HERE

    .

     converges uniformly to 


   Let  .
   
       Study the pointwise convergence of  
       Study the pointwise convergence of  on 
       Study the uniform convergence of  on 
      
    
         ;  

             ( is fixed)

        
    .

         

        
 
         then  doesn't converge uniformly to  for  
      

         decreases 

         then  converges uniformly to  for 
    
Sequence of continuous functions

    If a sequence of continuous functions on  converges uniformly to the limit function  then  is continuous.


    
        If a sequence of continuous functions  converges pointwise to a discontinuous function , then the convergence is not uniform.
        The continuity of the limit function  on  is a necessary but not sufficient condition for the uniform sequence of functions .
    
In the previous year, you took numberical sequences, for example , but this year we will be studying sequences of functions so we have to study 2 variables, the usual  and 

In this case, there 2 types of convergence pointwise and uniform. In pointwise, we let x be a fixed variable and instead of studying the entire continuoum of values of  we study only one value. so

    If  is a sequence of functions defined on , we say that  converges pointwise to the functions  if for  and  such that for all we write .

    

    Study the pointwise convergence of .

    We let  be fixed and take the limit . We conclude that  converges 


    .

    Study the pointwise convergence of .

    
         
         fixed  (by Hopital)
    IF:

     and  type 
          and  type  
          and  type 

     using the definition


